Hey y'all i'm patrick haggerty with roi training and in this video i'm going to show you how to easily create a google cloud storage buckets. Do i have a. Google document where i collect a lot of. Links for google cloud that i find you. You can find that file at tinyurl.com ryg. In that file in the data section i actually have a subsection on cloud storage. There's a lot of nice links to related to cloud storage at hotworx starting with the main cloud storage document. Visiting that will give you a nice overview of what cloud storage is hot works and also you'll see there's a subsection that would be a nice follow-on to this video. On actually create. To create a bucket. I need a google cloud project. I'm going into my project here i can go to the main navigation menu. And cloud storage will be found right below compute in these. Let me click on storage. It'll show any buckets i have right now and i can click create bucket to build. The first question you will have to answer is you'll have to come up with. The name. A bucket. The bucket name needs to be. Globally unique. So you might have to play with it a little bit to see if you can come up with a globally unique now. Video demos taken by somebody else video demo 4.42 that's free. Next question you'll have to answer is your location where you store the data there's three choices. I can store it in a particular google cloud region like us central lawn and iowa or us east one and south carolina or something like that. Your next choice really is multi-regional. Multi-regional you can pick up particular part of the world. If i pick you up for example or google guarantees is it'll be stored in at least two regions in the united states at least 100 miles apart. If it's important to you to know exactly which two regions. That's what jewelry joel.. I can think of america's and now i know it's going to have a copy in iowa and south carol. One more expensive. Higher higher on the availability. If you don't know just do 3g. It was regional i'm going to put in u.s.. Next decision you'll have to make is a storage close. Standard storage class is hot data. That means data that your frequently access. A regional story original storage bucket with hot date is going to be about 20 bucks of terabytes noticed accessing is free. Nearline coldline archive are all 47 we access data. Access it about once a month near line. Access is about. I want to quarter cold by. Hope you never have to access it again or certainly no more than once a year archival. D. Nearline coleman archive are all cheaper on the storage fronts. But they come with an access point. Archive is only a dollar 20 terabyte the store. But to access that it would be. 50 bucks a turbotax. So that's why nearline goldmine. Archive don't make sense for hot. Frequently accessed. When in doubt goes down. Next decision you'll have to make do you want. Every file to have its own permissions access control list that's fine grain that's the default. Or would you like all the files in the bucket to have the exact same level of access. You can make that decision. And you have up to. 90 days to change your mind. Last we have some more advanced options how is it encrypted retention labels couple other things you might could read the document. What's your finish with your selections. It creates. It will take just a couple of moments. And you will have a nice. Shiny new storage bucket ready to snow. I'm patrick haggerty with roi draining. Enjoy this way. 